# Ingress Core Module version 1.8.0

SIGHUP team maintains this module updated and tested. That is the main reason why we worked on this new release.
With the Kubernetes 1.19 release, it became the perfect time to start testing this module against this Kubernetes
release. We are proud users of cert-manager. The cert-manager team releases its first v1 version. Now it is integrated
into this module.

## Changelog

- Update Nginx ingress controller. From version `0.30.0` to `0.35.0`.
- Update cert-manager. From version `0.14.1` to `1.0.1`.
  - Please, [read the upgrade path](#cert-manager) to success update this package.
- Update forecastle. From version `v1.0.42` to `v1.0.57`.

## Upgrade path

### nginx ingress controller and forecastle

To upgrade these packages from `v1.7.0` to `v1.8.0`, you need to download this new version, then apply the
`kustomize` project. No further action is required.

```bash
$ kustomize build katalog/dual-nginx | kubectl apply -f -
# or
$ kustomize build katalog/nginx | kubectl apply -f -
# or
$ kustomize build katalog/nginx-gke | kubectl apply -f -
# and
$ kustomize build katalog/forecastle | kubectl apply -f -
```

### cert-manager

To upgrade the cert-manager package from `v1.7.0` to `v1.8.0`, you need to follow the next guide.
The following information has been copy-pasted from the
[cert-manager documentation site](https://cert-manager.io/docs/installation/upgrading/upgrading-0.16-1.0/#kubernetes-1-14-and-below).

---

We have released our `cert-manager.io/v1` API that replaces `cert-manager.io/v1alpha2`.
Since the legacy version for Kubernetes 1.15 and below only supports one CRD version
you have to transition all resources to `cert-manager.io/v1`.

This makes for a fairly significant breaking change for users, as **all**
cert-manager resources will need to be updated to reflect these changes.
Ingress annotations will stay the same, this means if you only use ingress-shim
you do not have to convert these resources over but it is recommended.
However you should convert the (Cluster)Issuers and delete the old CRD versions.

This upgrade MUST be performed in the following sequence of steps:


1. [Back up](#backing-up-resources) existing cert-manager resources. See the backup section.
2. [Uninstall cert-manager](#uninstall-cert-manager).
3. Update the `apiVersion` on all your backed up resources from
   `cert-manager.io/v1alpha2` to `cert-manager.io/v1`. See the converting section for that.
4. Ensure the old cert-manager CRD resources have also been deleted: `kubectl get crd | grep cert-manager.io`
5. Re-install cert-manager `v1.0` from scratch according to the [installation guide](../../katalog/cert-manager/README.md).
6. Apply the backed up resources again.


You must be sure to properly **backup**, **uninstall**, **re-install** and
**restore** your installation in order to ensure the upgrade is successful.

#### Backing up resources

You can backup the custom resources you or cert-manager created using the following `kubectl` command:
```bash
kubectl get -o yaml \
   --all-namespaces \
   issuer,clusterissuer,certificates,certificaterequests > cert-manager-backup.yaml
```
*Note that this will not export private keys or secrets.*


#### Converting resources

You can use our [kubectl plugin](https://cert-manager.io/docs/usage/kubectl-plugin/)
to automatically convert your backup from `v1alpha2` to `v1` using the following command:

```bash
kubectl cert-manager convert --output-version cert-manager.io/v1 -f cert-manager-backup.yaml > cert-manager-v1.yaml
```

*Tip:* you can use `kubectl apply --dry-run` on a local/test cluster with cert-manager `v1.0` installed to validate your conversion

#### Uninstall cert-manager

Next step is to uninstall cert-manager.
This will cause a temporary halt to renewal of certificates but will not affect any TLS traffic.

How you do this depends on how you installed cert-manager.

Using `kubectl`:
```bash
kustomize build katalog/cert-manager | kubectl delete -f -
```

Make sure you also delete the CRDs. This will delete all cert-manager resources, so make sure your backup is complete.
You can do this manually by executing the following commands:
```bash
kubectl delete crd certificaterequests.cert-manager.io
kubectl delete crd certificates.cert-manager.io
kubectl delete crd challenges.acme.cert-manager.io
kubectl delete crd clusterissuers.cert-manager.io
kubectl delete crd issuers.cert-manager.io
kubectl delete crd orders.acme.cert-manager.io
```

For more info see the [uninstall cert-manager guide](https://cert-manager.io/docs/installation/uninstall/).

#### Reinstall and restore

To install cert-manager again you can follow the normal [installation guide](../../katalog/cert-manager/README.md).

Once it has been fully installed you can re-apply the converted resources:
```bash
kubectl apply -f cert-manager-v1.yaml
```

Congratulations you're now fully upgraded to cert-manager `v1.0`

---

### Important note

The upgrade takes some seconds/minutes (depends on the cluster size),
and you should expect some downtime during the upgrade process.
